
.. _Set up Discussions in Cohorted Courses:


######################################################
Setting up Discussions in Courses with Cohorts
######################################################

In courses that have cohorts enabled, you can set up discussion topics to be
either divided by cohort, or unified and accessible to all students.

When you first enable cohorts in your course, the initial behavior for course-
wide discussion topics is different from the behavior of content-specific
(inline) discussion topics.

By default, course-wide discussion topics are unified because these discussions
are generally used for topics that are of broad interest to all learners in the
course. In contrast, content-specific discussion topics are by default divided
by cohort. You can configure either type of discussion to be divided or unified.

For overview information about discussions in a course, see :ref:`Discussions`.
For information about using cohorts in a course and managing discussions that
are divided by cohort, see :ref:`Cohorts Overview` and :ref:`Moderating
Discussions for Cohorts`.


***********************************************
Course-Wide Discussion Topics and Cohorts
***********************************************

When you first :ref:`create a course-wide discussion topic<Create CourseWide
Discussion Topics>`, it is unified, and all students in the course can post,
read, respond, and comment in the topic without regard to their cohort
assignments. 

After you add a course-wide topic, you can configure it so that it is divided by
cohort instead. For step-by-step instructions for specifying whether a course-
wide discussion topic is unified or divided by cohort, see :ref:


.. _Some Coursewide Discussion Topics Divided by Cohort Example:

====================================================================
Example: Making Some Course-Wide Discussion Topics Divided by Cohort
====================================================================

Course-wide discussion topics are by default unified, so that all learners can
participate. In some instances, however, you might decide that it makes sense to
divide some course-wide discussion topics by cohort, so that members of each
cohort only see and respond to cohort-specific posts.

For example, in addition to the system-supplied General topic, you add three new course-wide discussion topics, for a total of four discussion topics.

* General
* Course Q&A
* Announcements
* Brainstorming

The posts that you intend to make to the General and Course Q&A topics, and the
subjects you expect students to explore there, are appropriate for a unified
learner audience. However, you decide that it will be useful for the
Announcements and Brainstorming topics to be divided by cohort.

You also decide to apply a naming convention so that students will know the
audience for the discussion topics before they add any posts. For information
about naming conventions, see :ref:`Apply Naming Conventions to Discussion
Topics`.




.. _Specify Whether CourseWide Discussion Topics are Cohorted:

===================================================================
Specify Whether Course-Wide Discussion Topics are Divided by Cohort
===================================================================

When you create course-wide discussion topics, they are by default unified, and
all learners in your course can access them. To change whether a course-wide discussion topic is divided by cohort, follow these steps.

#. In the LMS, select **Instructor**, then select **Cohorts**. 

#. Click **Specify whether discussion topics are divided by cohort**. 
   
#. In the **Course-Wide Discussion Topics** section, select the checkbox next to
   each course-wide discussion topic that you want to divide by cohort. Clear
   the checkbox next to each course-wide discussion topic that you want to make
   unified.
   
#. Click **Save**.
   
   The list of course-wide discussion topics is updated to show which topics are
   divided by cohort, and which are unified. In the discussion topics that you
   specified as divided, only members of the same cohort can see and respond to
   each other's posts. In unified discussion topics, all learners in the course
   can see and respond to posts from all other learners.

For more information about managing discussions that are divided by cohort, see
:ref:`Moderating Discussions for Cohorts`.


********************************************************
Content-Specific Discussion Topics and Cohort Groups
********************************************************

When you enable the cohort feature for a course, and :ref:`create content-
specific discussion topics<Create ContentSpecific Discussion Topics>` by adding
discussion components to units in Studio, these content-specific discussion
topics are by default divided by cohort. A student who is assigned to one
cohort cannot read or add to the posts, responses, or comments contributed
by the members of another cohort.

If you want all content-specific discussion topics in your course to remain
divided by cohort, you do not need to take any further action. However, if
you want one or more content-specific discussion topics to be unified
(accessible to all students regardless of cohort), you can change the setting for those discussion topics. For step-by-step instructions for specifying whether a content-specific discussion topic is unified or divided by cohort, see :ref:


.. _Specify Whether ContentSpecific Discussion Topics are Cohorted:

=========================================================================
Specify Whether Content-Specific Discussion Topics are Divided by Cohort
=========================================================================

.. note:: If you want all content-specific discussion topics in your course to
   be divided by cohort, you do not need to take any action. 

When you create content-specific discussion topics, the default setting is that
they are all unified, and all learners in your course can access them. To change
whether a course-wide discussion topic is divided by cohort, follow these steps.

#. In the LMS, select **Instructor**, then select **Cohorts**. 

#. Click **Specify whether discussion topics are divided by cohort**. 
   
#. In the **Content-Specific Discussion Topics** section, select **Cohort some content-specific discussion topics**. 

    The list of content-specific discussion topics becomes editable. 
   
#. Select the checkbox next to each content-specific discussion topic that you
   want to divide by cohort. Clear the checkbox next to each content-specific
   discussion topic that you want to make unified.
   
   The list of course-wide discussion topics is updated to show which topics are
   divided by cohort, and which are unified. In the discussion topics that you
   specified as divided, only members of the same cohort can see and respond to
   each other's posts. In unified discussion topics, all learners in the course
   can see and respond to posts from all other learners.

For more information about managing discussions that are divided by cohort, see
:ref:`Moderating Discussions for Cohorts`.



   